README.md, before:

**KaiMos** is a fusion of the **Välkki-Örival** word *"kai-däin"* (meaning *excitement*) and *"cosmos"* (symbolizing the boundless expanse of the internet). Pronounced **/kaɪ.məs/**, this is my **focused fork of Commet**, aiming to breathe new life into it with fresh themes and vibrant energy.

For reference, the original **Commet documentation** is included below.

# Original Documentation
<p align="center" style="padding-top:20px">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commetchat/.github/refs/heads/main/assets/banner.png">

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://commet.chat/donate"><img alt="Donate" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/donate-534cdd?style=for-the-badge"></a>
    <a href="https://commet.chat/install"><img alt="Download" src="https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/commetchat/commet/total?style=for-the-badge&color=534cdd"></a>
    <a href="https://matrix.to/#/#commet:matrix.org"><img alt="Matrix" src="https://img.shields.io/matrix/commet%3Amatrix.org?logo=matrix&style=for-the-badge&color=534cdd"></a>
    <a href="https://fosstodon.org/@commetchat"><img alt="Mastodon" src="https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109894490854601533?domain=https%3A%2F%2Ffosstodon.org&style=for-the-badge&logo=mastodon&color=534cdd&logoColor=white"></a>
    <a href="https://bsky.app/profile/commet.chat"><img alt="Bluesky" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-@commet.chat-whitesmoke?style=for-the-badge&logo=bluesky&logoColor=white&color=534cdd"></a>
</p>

### Your space to connect

Commet is a client for [Matrix](https://matrix.org) focused on providing a feature rich experience while maintaining a simple interface. The goal is to build a secure, privacy respecting app without compromising on the features you have come to expect from a modern chat client.


<p align="center" style="padding-top:20px">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commetchat/.github/main/assets/banner_demo.png">

# Features
- Supports **Windows**, **Linux**, and **Android** (MacOS and iOS planned in future)
- End to End Encryption
- Custom Emoji + Stickers
- GIF Search
- Threads
- Encrypted Room Search
- Multiple Accounts
- Spaces
- Emoji verification & cross signing
- Push Notifications
- URL Preview
  

<details><summary><b>PGP Public Key to verify executables</b></summary>

```
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
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=wnah
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
```
</details>

# Translation
Help translate Commet to your language on [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/commetchat/commet/)

<a href="https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/commetchat/">
<img src="https://hosted.weblate.org/widget/commetchat/commet/multi-auto.svg" alt="Translation status" />
</a>

# Development
Commet is built using [Flutter](https://flutter.dev), currently v3.35.4 

This repo currently has a monorepo structure, containing two flutter projects: Commet and Tiamat. Commet is the main client, and Tiamat is a sort of wrapper around Material with some extra goodies, which is used to maintain a consistent style across the app. Tiamat may eventually be moved to its own repo, but for now it is maintained here for ease of development.
## Building

### 1. [Install Flutter](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install)

### 2. Install Libraries
Commet requires some additional libraries to be built 
```bash
sudo apt-get install -y ninja-build libgtk-3-dev libmpv-dev mpv ffmpeg libmimalloc-dev
```

### 3. Fetch Dependencies
You will need to change directory in to commet, then fetch dependencies
```bash
cd commet
flutter pub get
```

### 4. Code Generation
We make use of procedural code generation in some parts of commet. As a rule, generated code will not be checked in to git, and will need to be generated before building.

To run code generation, run the script within the `commet` directory:
`dart run scripts/codegen.dart`

### 5. Building
When building Commet, there are some additional command line arguments that must be used to configure the build.

**Required**
| **Argument** | **Valid Values**                                                          | **Description**                                                                                              |
|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PLATFORM    | 'desktop', 'mobile', 'linux', 'windows', 'macos', 'android', 'ios', 'web' | Defines which platform to build for                                                                          |
| BUILD_MODE   | 'release', 'debug'                                                        | When building with 'debug' flag, additional debug information will be shown                                  |

**Optional**
| **Argument** | **Valid Values**                                                          | **Description**                                                                                              |
|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| GIT_HASH     | *                                                                         | Supply the current git hash when building to show in info screen                                             |
| VERSION_TAG  | *                                                                         | Supply the current build version, to display app version                                                     |
| BUILD_DETAIL | *                                                                         | Can provide additional detail about the current build, for example if it was being built for Flatpak or Snap |

**Example:**

```bash
cd commet
flutter run --dart-define BUILD_MODE=debug --dart-define PLATFORM=linux
```

Commit message:

Update README with KaiMos project information
Added details about KaiMos features and build instructions.

README.md, after:

# KaiMos
**KaiMos** is a fusion of the **Välkki-Örival** word *"kai-däin"* (meaning *excitement*) and *"cosmos"* (symbolizing the boundless expanse of the internet). Pronounced **/kaɪ.məs/**, this is my **focused fork of Commet**, aiming to breathe new life into it with fresh themes and vibrant energy.

For reference, the original **Commet documentation** is included below.
---
KaiMos will pack additional features, themes, and configurations compared to Commet. This is the Matrix client fork I’m pouring the most effort into, and it’ll only sync with official Commet releases—no in-between GitHub commits. This keeps KaiMos stable, unlike the failed "frostrinne" (that Element fork with rolling updates that broke everything). KaiMos should use the same build instructions as commet. There is a KaiMos cilented hosted at https://kaimos.aexelgroup.app, however, it is not up-to-date most the time with this repo and is slow, so it is reccomended to build from source. Once significant features are added to KaiMos, I will add prebuilt binaries for linux (aarch64 and x86_64), Windows (x86), and potentially MacOS.

# Original Documentation
<p align="center" style="padding-top:20px">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commetchat/.github/refs/heads/main/assets/banner.png">

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://commet.chat/donate"><img alt="Donate" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/donate-534cdd?style=for-the-badge"></a>
    <a href="https://commet.chat/install"><img alt="Download" src="https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/commetchat/commet/total?style=for-the-badge&color=534cdd"></a>
    <a href="https://matrix.to/#/#commet:matrix.org"><img alt="Matrix" src="https://img.shields.io/matrix/commet%3Amatrix.org?logo=matrix&style=for-the-badge&color=534cdd"></a>
    <a href="https://fosstodon.org/@commetchat"><img alt="Mastodon" src="https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109894490854601533?domain=https%3A%2F%2Ffosstodon.org&style=for-the-badge&logo=mastodon&color=534cdd&logoColor=white"></a>
    <a href="https://bsky.app/profile/commet.chat"><img alt="Bluesky" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-@commet.chat-whitesmoke?style=for-the-badge&logo=bluesky&logoColor=white&color=534cdd"></a>
</p>

### Your space to connect

Commet is a client for [Matrix](https://matrix.org) focused on providing a feature rich experience while maintaining a simple interface. The goal is to build a secure, privacy respecting app without compromising on the features you have come to expect from a modern chat client.


<p align="center" style="padding-top:20px">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commetchat/.github/main/assets/banner_demo.png">

# Features
- Supports **Windows**, **Linux**, and **Android** (MacOS and iOS planned in future)
- End to End Encryption
- Custom Emoji + Stickers
- GIF Search
- Threads
- Encrypted Room Search
- Multiple Accounts
- Spaces
- Emoji verification & cross signing
- Push Notifications
- URL Preview
  

<details><summary><b>PGP Public Key to verify executables</b></summary>

```
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
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=wnah
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
```
</details>

# Translation
Help translate Commet to your language on [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/commetchat/commet/)

<a href="https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/commetchat/">
<img src="https://hosted.weblate.org/widget/commetchat/commet/multi-auto.svg" alt="Translation status" />
</a>

# Development
Commet is built using [Flutter](https://flutter.dev), currently v3.35.4 

This repo currently has a monorepo structure, containing two flutter projects: Commet and Tiamat. Commet is the main client, and Tiamat is a sort of wrapper around Material with some extra goodies, which is used to maintain a consistent style across the app. Tiamat may eventually be moved to its own repo, but for now it is maintained here for ease of development.
## Building

### 1. [Install Flutter](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install)

### 2. Install Libraries
Commet requires some additional libraries to be built 
```bash
sudo apt-get install -y ninja-build libgtk-3-dev libmpv-dev mpv ffmpeg libmimalloc-dev
```

### 3. Fetch Dependencies
You will need to change directory in to commet, then fetch dependencies
```bash
cd commet
flutter pub get
```

### 4. Code Generation
We make use of procedural code generation in some parts of commet. As a rule, generated code will not be checked in to git, and will need to be generated before building.

To run code generation, run the script within the `commet` directory:
`dart run scripts/codegen.dart`

### 5. Building
When building Commet, there are some additional command line arguments that must be used to configure the build.

**Required**
| **Argument** | **Valid Values**                                                          | **Description**                                                                                              |
|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PLATFORM    | 'desktop', 'mobile', 'linux', 'windows', 'macos', 'android', 'ios', 'web' | Defines which platform to build for                                                                          |
| BUILD_MODE   | 'release', 'debug'                                                        | When building with 'debug' flag, additional debug information will be shown                                  |

**Optional**
| **Argument** | **Valid Values**                                                          | **Description**                                                                                              |
|--------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| GIT_HASH     | *                                                                         | Supply the current git hash when building to show in info screen                                             |
| VERSION_TAG  | *                                                                         | Supply the current build version, to display app version                                                     |
| BUILD_DETAIL | *                                                                         | Can provide additional detail about the current build, for example if it was being built for Flatpak or Snap |

**Example:**

```bash
cd commet
flutter run --dart-define BUILD_MODE=debug --dart-define PLATFORM=linux
```
